Course docs (#571)
hpcugent/vsc_user_docs: mkdocs/docs/HPC/teaching_training.md

# Teaching and training

> The HPC infrastructure can be used for teaching and training purposes, and

Reviewer: why the newline?

HPC-UGent provides support for getting you organized. 

> As a reminder, both Bachelor and Master students are allowed to use the HPC, and it is also possible to organize workshops. But in either case we do recommend preparing a fallback plan for should the HPC infrastructure be unavailable, e.g. because of an unexpected power failure.

Reviewer: allowed to use the HPC **infrastructure**

In general, we advise the use of the HPC webportal in combination with the [interactive cluster {https://docs.hpc.ugent.be/interactive_debug/} ] for teaching and training, but deviations are possible upon request.

In order to prepare things for your course, provide hpc@ugent.be with the following information (explained further below):

> - UGent Course Code or workshop name

Reviewer 2: also the nickname for the folder (and the title?)

> - Vsc-ids of all course group moderators

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- VSC-ids of all course group moderators
```

- Start and end date (and time) for your course/workshop
- In the case of a workshop: vsc-ids of all participants
- Optional information
  - special storage requirements: shared folder and/or shared subgroup folders
  - reservation for resource requirements beyond the interactive cluster
  - ticket number for specific software needed for your course/workshop
  - more details for a custom Interactive Application in the webportal

> In addition, it could be beneficial to set up a short Teams call with HPC-UGent, especially if you are using a complex workflow for your course/workshop. 

Reviewer: Teams call with HPC-UGent **team members**

Please make these requests well in advance, several weeks before the start of your course/workshop.

## UGent Course Code

> Based on the Course Code, we can create vsc accounts for all students that have officially enrolled in your UGent course (if they do not have an account already). Students will then no longer have to take steps themselves to request a vsc account. The students do need to be officially enrolled, so that they are linked to your Course Code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Based on the Course Code, we can create VSC accounts for all students that have officially enrolled in your UGent course (if they do not have an account already). Students will then no longer have to take steps themselves to request a VSC account. The students do need to be officially enrolled, so that they are linked to your Course Code.
```

The created vsc accounts will be accounts without an ssh-key. This allows the students to use e.g. the portal, but if they require ssh access to the infrastructure, they will have to add an ssh-key themselves (via the [VSC accountpage] {https://account.vscentrum.be}).

A group will be automatically created for your course, with all vsc accounts of registered students as member.

> Typical format ?gcourse_<coursecode>_<year>?, e.g. ?gcourse_e071400_2023?

Reviewer: why the question marks?

> Teachers are moderator(s) of this course group (see further), but won?t be able to add unregistered students or moderators. Vsc accounts that are not linked to the Course Code will be automatically removed from the course group. To get a student added to the course group, make sure that the student becomes officially enrolled in your course.

Reviewer: won't

> Teachers are moderator(s) of this course group (see further), but won?t be able to add unregistered students or moderators. Vsc accounts that are not linked to the Course Code will be automatically removed from the course group. To get a student added to the course group, make sure that the student becomes officially enrolled in your course.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Teachers are moderator(s) of this course group (see further), but will not be able to add unregistered students or moderators. VSC accounts that are not linked to the Course Code will be automatically removed from the course group. To get a student added to the course group, make sure that the student becomes officially enrolled in your course.
```

## Workshops

(Currently under construction:)

> For workshops or courses that do not have a Course Code, you need to provide us with the course or workshop name and a list of all vsc-ids. A group will be made, based on the name of the workshop, with all vsc-ids as member. Teachers/moderators will be able to add/remove vsc accounts from this course group. But students will have to follow the [procedure to request a vsc account]{ https://docs.hpc.ugent.be/account/} themselves. There will be no automation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For workshops or courses that do not have a Course Code, you need to provide us with the course or workshop name and a list of all VSC-ids. A group will be made, based on the name of the workshop, with all VSC-ids as members. Teachers/moderators will be able to add/remove VSC accounts from this course group. But students will have to follow the [procedure to request a VSC account]{ https://docs.hpc.ugent.be/account/} themselves. There will be no automation.
```

## Group moderators

> The course group is used a.o. to manage storage permissions. Moderators are the owners of a group and have raised privileges: e.g. they have read/write access in specific folders, can assign subgroups, etc.

Reviewer: a.o.?

Typically, the teachers map to the role of moderators of a course group, and students are regular members.

> Provide us with a list of all the vsc accounts for the teachers of your course. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Provide us with a list of all the VSC accounts for the teachers of your course. 
```

## Start and end date (and time) for your course/workshop

The end date is used to automatically perform a cleanup when your course/workshop has finished:
- Course group and subgroups will be deactivated
- Reservations will be terminated
- Residual data in the course directories will be deleted
- Custom Interactive Applications will be disabled

The start date (and time) is used as a target for the HPC-UGent team to set up your course requirements. But note that this target is best-effort, depending on the load of the support team and the complexity of your requirements. 
Requests should be made well in advance, at least several weeks before the actual start of your course. The sooner you make the request, the better.

## Dedicated course storage

> For every course, a dedicated course directory will be created on the DATA filesystem under: /data/gent/courses/<year>/<coursecode>_<year>

Reviewer 2: this is not true anymore, it is <year>/<nickname>_<code>, eg 2023/ham_...

e.g. /data/gent/courses/2023/e071400_2023

This directory will be accessible by all members of your course group. (Hence, it is no longer necessary to set up or invite course members to your virtual organization.)
Every course directory will always contain the folders:
- /input
  - ideally suited to distribute initial common datasets or input data
  - moderators have read/write access
  -  group members (students) only have read access
- /members
  - this directory contains a personal folder for every student in your course:
  /members/vsc<4abcd>

>   - only this specific vsc-id will have read/write access to this folder

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - only this specific VSC-id will have read/write access to this folder
```

  - moderators have read access to this folder

Optionally, we can also create these folders:
- /shared
  - this is a folder for sharing files between any and all group members
  - all group members and moderators have read/write access

>   - beware that group members will be able to alter/delete each others files in this folder

Reviewer 2: well, the sticky bit is set so this is not completely true, but i'm not sure how to nuance this without making it complicated

Reviewer 2: i'm not sure there will be (many) use cases for this directory since we have support for subgroups, but time will tell i guess

- /subgroups/group[abc]
  - these folders are suitable if you want to let your students collaborate closely in smaller groups

>   - a number of ?group[abc]? folders are created under the subgroups folder

Reviewer: question marks

  - each of these group[abc] folders are owned by a dedicated group
  - teachers are automatically made moderators of these dedicated groups

>   - moderators can populate these groups with vsc-ids of group members in the VSC accountpage

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - moderators can populate these groups with VSC-ids of group members in the VSC accountpage
```

>   - only these vsc-ids will then be able to access a group[abc] folder, and will have read/write access

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - only these VSC-ids will then be able to access a group[abc] folder, and will have read/write access
```

This might be relevant when requesting a custom application.

Reservations take away precious resources for all HPC users, so only request this when it is really needed for your course. In our experience, the [interactive cluster {https://docs.hpc.ugent.be/interactive_debug/} ] is more than sufficient for the majority of cases.

## Specific software

In case you need software for your course/workshop that is unavailable or that needs to be updated, make a separate [software installation request {https://www.ugent.be/hpc/en/support/software-installation-request } ]. Mail hpc@ugent.be the OTRS ticket number in your request for a course/workshop.

We will try to make the software available before the start of your course/workshop, but this is best effort, depending on the load of the support team and the complexity of your software request. Typically, software installation requests must be made at least one month before the course/workshop starts.

Ideally, courses/workshops rely on software that is already in use (and thus also well tested).

## Custom Interactive Application in the webportal

> HPC-UGent can create a custom interactive application in the web portal for your course/workshop. Typically, this is a generic interactive application such as cluster desktop, Jupyter notebook, ? in which a number of options are preset or locked down: e.g. the number of cores, software version, cluster selection, autostart code, etc. This could make it easier for teachers and students, since students are less prone to making mistakes and don?t have to spend time copy-pasting specific settings. 

Reviewer: question mark

Reviewer: and don't

Reviewer 3: Do not use abbreviations in written text.

> HPC-UGent can create a custom interactive application in the web portal for your course/workshop. Typically, this is a generic interactive application such as cluster desktop, Jupyter notebook, ? in which a number of options are preset or locked down: e.g. the number of cores, software version, cluster selection, autostart code, etc. This could make it easier for teachers and students, since students are less prone to making mistakes and don?t have to spend time copy-pasting specific settings. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
HPC-UGent can create a custom interactive application in the web portal for your course/workshop. Typically, this is a generic interactive application such as cluster desktop, Jupyter notebook, ? in which a number of options are preset or locked down: e.g. the number of cores, software version, cluster selection, autostart code, etc. This could make it easier for teachers and students, since students are less prone to making mistakes and do not have to spend time copy-pasting specific settings. 
```

> A custom interactive application will only be available to the members of your course group. It will appear in the ?Interactive Apps? menu in the webportal, under the section ?Courses?. After the indicated end date of your course, this application will be removed.

Reviewer: Also question marks

If you would like this for your course, provide hpc@ugent.be with more details, including:

> - what interactive application would you like to get launched (cluster desktop, Jupyter, ?)

Reviewer: replace question mark by `...` or `etc.`

- which cluster you use
- how many nodes/cores/GPUs are needed
- which software modules you are loading
- custom code you are launching (e.g. in a terminal)
- required environment variables that you are setting
- standard 

> - ?

Reviewer: also here, replace question mark by `...`

We will try to make the custom interactive application available before the start of your course/workshop, but this is best effort, depending on the load of the support team and the complexity of your request.

> A caveat for the teacher and students is that students don't learn to work with the generic application, and don?t see the actual commands or customization code. Therefore, per custom interactive application, HPC-UGent will make a dedicated section in the [web portal chapter of the HPC user documentation {https://docs.hpc.ugent.be/web_portal/#custom-apps} ]. This section will briefly explain what happens under the hood of the interactive application. We would recommend that you as a teacher take some time to show and explain this to the students. Note that the custom interactive application will disappear for students after the indicated end of your course, but the section in the web portal will remain there for several years, for reference.

Reviewer: don?t replaced by don't

> A caveat for the teacher and students is that students don't learn to work with the generic application, and don?t see the actual commands or customization code. Therefore, per custom interactive application, HPC-UGent will make a dedicated section in the [web portal chapter of the HPC user documentation {https://docs.hpc.ugent.be/web_portal/#custom-apps} ]. This section will briefly explain what happens under the hood of the interactive application. We would recommend that you as a teacher take some time to show and explain this to the students. Note that the custom interactive application will disappear for students after the indicated end of your course, but the section in the web portal will remain there for several years, for reference.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A caveat for the teacher and students is that students do not learn to work with the generic application, and so not see the actual commands or customization code. Therefore, per custom interactive application, HPC-UGent will make a dedicated section in the [web portal chapter of the HPC user documentation {https://docs.hpc.ugent.be/web_portal/#custom-apps} ]. This section will briefly explain what happens under the hood of the interactive application. We would recommend that you as a teacher take some time to show and explain this to the students. Note that the custom interactive application will disappear for students after the indicated end of your course, but the section in the web portal will remain there for several years, for reference.
```

  - more details for a custom Interactive Application in the webportal

In addition, it could be beneficial to set up a short Teams call with HPC-UGent team members,
especially if you are using a complex workflow for your course/workshop.

Please make these requests well in advance, several weeks before the start of your course/workshop.

## Title and nickname

## Teachers and/or trainers

Teacher are Group moderators
The course group is used a.o. to manage storage permissions.
Moderators are the owners of a group and have raised privileges:
e.g. they have read/write access in specific folders, can assign subgroups, etc.
Typically, the teachers map to the role of moderators of a course group, and students are regular members.
Provide us with a list of all the VSC-ids for the teachers of your course.

## Start and end date for your course/training

The end date is used to automatically perform a cleanup when your course/workshop has finished:
- Course group and subgroups will be deactivated
- Reservations will be terminated
- Residual data in the course directories will be deleted
- Custom Interactive Applications will be disabled

> The start date (and time) is used as a target for the HPC-UGent team to set up your course requirements. But note that this target is best-effort, depending on the load of the support team and the complexity of your requirements.

Reviewer: if you cut of the other lines, maybe here as well?
